This directory (bestfit) contains an example of the use of the cosi
simulation, implementing the calibrated model for three human
populations published in Genome Research (see Genome Res. 2005 Nov;15(11):1576-83.
Calibrating a coalescent simulation of human genome sequence variation.
Schaffner SF1, Foo C, Gabriel S, Reich D, Daly MJ, Altshuler D.).  

To run this example, first copy the contents of this directory to a writeable
directory, and make sure the compiled programs 'recosim' and 'coalescent' are in your PATH.
Then, to generate the genetic map, run recosim:

recosim recParams 250000

(The second parameter specifies the length of the simulated region, and must match the value of
the "length" parameter in the "params" file that is used by the program "coalescent".)
This will write the genetic map to the file "model.test", as specified within the file "recParams".

Then, run the simulation by running

coalescent -p params -m

"recosim" is controlled by the parameters in the file
"recParams"; "coalescent" is controlled by the parameters in the file
"params".  See the documentation directory for definitions of the 
parameters.

"recosim" outputs the recombination map in the file "model.test" (the
name is set as a parameter in "recParams").  The regional
recombination rate is picked from a distribution found in
"autosomes_deCODE.distr" (which is, not surprisingly, the distribution
seen in the deCODE genetic map for the autosomes).

In this example, the parameter file for coalescent is "params".  It
sets things like the mutation rate, gene conversion rate and sequence
length.  (With this model, sequences up to ~1 Mb generally run in a
reasonable time, provided the extreme tail of the recombination rate
is truncated -- see program documentation.) It also defines the sampled
populations, their effective population size (in the present) and the
number of sampled chromosomes.  The rest of the file defines the
demographic history of the popualations -- in this case, an
Out-of-Africa model of an ancestral population that splits into
Africans and non-Africans, and then into Europeans and Asians; African
Americans are modeled as a recent admixture of the African and
European populations.
